CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributor Guidelines

First, we would like to thank you for contributing to the open source project!

This document contains information relevant to anyone wishing to contribute the [Faraday digital radio](https://faradayrf.com) host computer software. Our core mission is laid out in our [Master Plan](https://faradayrf.com/faradayrf-master-plan/) and all contributions to the main project should help enable these goal set out.

[What should I know before I get started](#get_started)

* [Code of Conduct](#code_of_conduct)
* [Software Design and Purpose](#software_design)
* [Language(s)](#language)
* [Tools](#tools)

[How To Contribute](#how_to_contribute)

* [Bug Reports](#bug_reporting)
* [Suggesting Enhancements](#enhancement_suggestions)
* [Beginner Contributions](#beginner_contributions)
* [Pull Requests](#pull_requests)

[Styleguides](#styleguides)

* [Documentation](#documentation)
* [Python - PEP8](#pep8)

#What Should I Know Before I Get Started <a name="get_started"></a>
---

##Software Design and Purpose <a name="software_design"></a>
The Faraday software is responsible for providing host computer functionality when a locally connected Faraday digital radio is connected. As described on the [Code Overview](https://faradayrf.com/code/) page, this software provides:

* RESTful API interface to interact with a local Faraday
* Application toolset to utilize the RESTful API in a Python script
* Core applications


## Language <a name="language"></a>
Faraday Software is written in [Python 2.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

###Notable Python Modules <a name="notable_python_modules"></a>
Notable additional Python modules in use are:

* [FLASK](http://flask.pocoo.org/) - A microframework for web development that is used to transfer information between Faraday and applications over a network interface (primarily localhost)

## Tools<a name="tools"></a>
Please use the tools of your choice but we recommend:

* [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/?fromMenu) - Feature rich Python IDE with built it tools such as a PEP8 syntax checker.
* [PyScripter](https://sourceforge.net/projects/pyscripter/) - A lightweight Python IDE (for Windows)

# How To Contribute <a name="how_to_contribute"></a>

---

## Bug Reporting <a name="bug_reporting"></a>

Following these simple guidelines will help the maintainers better understand your bug report and to ensure a quality solution. Not all guidelines may be applicable to a given situation, please provide as much as possible.

* **Perform basic debugging**
  * Are you using the latest version?
  * Have you changed your configuration of both software or Faraday device from default? (if so please specify)
  * Are multiple programs running that may be interfering?
* **Use a clear and descriptive title****
* **Describe the exact steps used to reproduce the bug**
* **Describe the exact problem behavior you observed**
* **Provide a demonstration if possible**
  * An application script, log file, screenshots, video, etc...
* **Explain what behavior you expected to see and why**
* **When in doubt provide as much information as possible**!

## Enhancement Suggestions <a name="enhancement_suggestions"></a>

Suggesting enhancements is one of the most important factors to driving innovation within the Faraday digital amateur radio community! Please follow as best as possible these guidelines to ensure that maintainers clearly understand the request.

* **Use a clear and descriptive title**
* **Provide a descriptive overview of the enhancements operation(s)**
  * In addition to text screenshots, diagrams, etc... are welcome if they better explain your suggestion
* **Explain why this is a useful enhancement to the community**


## Beginner Contributions <a name="beginner_contributions"></a>

If you are not sure how to start off contributing to the project browse the tagged beginner issues below.

* [Beginner Issues](https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software/labels/Beginner) - Simple issues where the solution is likely a few lines of code or less
* [Documentation Updates](https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software/labels/Documentation) - Clear and consistent documentation is key to building a knowledgeable and growing community


##Pull Requests <a name="pull_requests"></a>

* Include examples/screenshots/videos of your pull request if applicable
* Include a detailed description of the pull requests purpose
* Follow our code [style guidelines](#styleguides)
* Avoid platform dependent code
 

#Styleguides <a name="styleguides"></a>
---

## Python PEP8 <a name="pep8"></a>

All Faraday Python code is styled using [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/), existing code that does not meet this style guide is being updated to comply. There are several automatic PEP8 syntax checking programs such as the [PyCharm PEP8 Syntax Module](https://blog.jetbrains.com/pycharm/2013/02/long-awaited-pep-8-checks-on-the-fly-improved-doctest-support-and-more-in-pycharm-2-7/).

## Documentation <a name="documentation"></a>

Documentation is mandatory to ensure that all contributors clearly understand how to use, enhance, and fix additions to the project. Faraday uses [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/index.html) to provide dynamic documentation and is hosted on [Faraday's Read The Doc's Page](http://faraday-software.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

* [Sphinx Documentation](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/contents.html)
* [Examples Of Good Python Docstrings](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/ext/example_google.html)

##Configuration files

For any application that requires user specific configuration, add a sample configuration file with `.sample` added to the file name before the `.ini`. Use proxy as an example where `proxy.py` uses configuration from `proxy.ini`, but `proxy.sample.ini` is stored in git and `proxy.ini` is in .gitignore. The end user needs to create their own local copy of the configuration file that contains their information by editing the file and renaming it without the `.sample`.

Use the following format within configuration files:
* Uppercase [SECTION] and NAME fields but values can be upper or lowercase
`[SECTION]`
* No spaces before or after = separating the NAME from the value
`NAME=value`
* Comments must be on their own line and cannot be inline comments
`;this is a comment`

Commit message:

Updated contribution introduction to clearly state what this project is, who started it, and the goals that drive decisions.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributor Guidelines

Faraday-Software is the software that interfaces the Faraday radio designed and manufactured by [FaradayRF](https://faradayrf.com/). We're excited you are considering helping out. We need it! FaradayRF was formed to provide the necessary hardware and software to enable the shift towards a data-centric amateur radio.

> Data is the future of amateur radio and we believe it will be open

By contributing to this project you are helping an open source project. That means that while FaradayRF benefits from it, so does the amateur radio community as a whole. Everyone has access to the work, everyone can use it. We like that.

## Essential Reading

You may wonder why we have made some of the decisions with the direction and functionality of this project. Our [Master Plan](https://faradayrf.com/faradayrf-master-plan/) outlines our goals clearly.

 1. Educate the Masses
 2. Build New Infrastructure
 3. Expand Spectrum Use

This points to why we may argue that Faraday software or hardware isn't designed to be the competitive with high bandwidth WiFi or why we are not currently developing a Mesh network. These items add complexity that do not help us accomplish these three goals.

[What should I know before I get started](#get_started)

* [Code of Conduct](#code_of_conduct)
* [Software Design and Purpose](#software_design)
* [Language(s)](#language)
* [Tools](#tools)

[How To Contribute](#how_to_contribute)

* [Bug Reports](#bug_reporting)
* [Suggesting Enhancements](#enhancement_suggestions)
* [Beginner Contributions](#beginner_contributions)
* [Pull Requests](#pull_requests)

[Styleguides](#styleguides)

* [Documentation](#documentation)
* [Python - PEP8](#pep8)

#What Should I Know Before I Get Started <a name="get_started"></a>
---

##Software Design and Purpose <a name="software_design"></a>
The Faraday software is responsible for providing host computer functionality when a locally connected Faraday digital radio is connected. As described on the [Code Overview](https://faradayrf.com/code/) page, this software provides:

* RESTful API interface to interact with a local Faraday
* Application toolset to utilize the RESTful API in a Python script
* Core applications


## Language <a name="language"></a>
Faraday Software is written in [Python 2.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

###Notable Python Modules <a name="notable_python_modules"></a>
Notable additional Python modules in use are:

* [FLASK](http://flask.pocoo.org/) - A microframework for web development that is used to transfer information between Faraday and applications over a network interface (primarily localhost)

## Tools<a name="tools"></a>
Please use the tools of your choice but we recommend:

* [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/?fromMenu) - Feature rich Python IDE with built it tools such as a PEP8 syntax checker.
* [PyScripter](https://sourceforge.net/projects/pyscripter/) - A lightweight Python IDE (for Windows)

# How To Contribute <a name="how_to_contribute"></a>

---

## Bug Reporting <a name="bug_reporting"></a>

Following these simple guidelines will help the maintainers better understand your bug report and to ensure a quality solution. Not all guidelines may be applicable to a given situation, please provide as much as possible.

* **Perform basic debugging**
  * Are you using the latest version?
  * Have you changed your configuration of both software or Faraday device from default? (if so please specify)
  * Are multiple programs running that may be interfering?
* **Use a clear and descriptive title****
* **Describe the exact steps used to reproduce the bug**
* **Describe the exact problem behavior you observed**
* **Provide a demonstration if possible**
  * An application script, log file, screenshots, video, etc...
* **Explain what behavior you expected to see and why**
* **When in doubt provide as much information as possible**!

## Enhancement Suggestions <a name="enhancement_suggestions"></a>

Suggesting enhancements is one of the most important factors to driving innovation within the Faraday digital amateur radio community! Please follow as best as possible these guidelines to ensure that maintainers clearly understand the request.

* **Use a clear and descriptive title**
* **Provide a descriptive overview of the enhancements operation(s)**
  * In addition to text screenshots, diagrams, etc... are welcome if they better explain your suggestion
* **Explain why this is a useful enhancement to the community**


## Beginner Contributions <a name="beginner_contributions"></a>

If you are not sure how to start off contributing to the project browse the tagged beginner issues below.

* [Beginner Issues](https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software/labels/Beginner) - Simple issues where the solution is likely a few lines of code or less
* [Documentation Updates](https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software/labels/Documentation) - Clear and consistent documentation is key to building a knowledgeable and growing community


##Pull Requests <a name="pull_requests"></a>

* Include examples/screenshots/videos of your pull request if applicable
* Include a detailed description of the pull requests purpose
* Follow our code [style guidelines](#styleguides)
* Avoid platform dependent code
 

#Styleguides <a name="styleguides"></a>
---

## Python PEP8 <a name="pep8"></a>

All Faraday Python code is styled using [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/), existing code that does not meet this style guide is being updated to comply. There are several automatic PEP8 syntax checking programs such as the [PyCharm PEP8 Syntax Module](https://blog.jetbrains.com/pycharm/2013/02/long-awaited-pep-8-checks-on-the-fly-improved-doctest-support-and-more-in-pycharm-2-7/).

## Documentation <a name="documentation"></a>

Documentation is mandatory to ensure that all contributors clearly understand how to use, enhance, and fix additions to the project. Faraday uses [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/index.html) to provide dynamic documentation and is hosted on [Faraday's Read The Doc's Page](http://faraday-software.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

* [Sphinx Documentation](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/contents.html)
* [Examples Of Good Python Docstrings](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/ext/example_google.html)

##Configuration files

For any application that requires user specific configuration, add a sample configuration file with `.sample` added to the file name before the `.ini`. Use proxy as an example where `proxy.py` uses configuration from `proxy.ini`, but `proxy.sample.ini` is stored in git and `proxy.ini` is in .gitignore. The end user needs to create their own local copy of the configuration file that contains their information by editing the file and renaming it without the `.sample`.

Use the following format within configuration files:
* Uppercase [SECTION] and NAME fields but values can be upper or lowercase
`[SECTION]`
* No spaces before or after = separating the NAME from the value
`NAME=value`
* Comments must be on their own line and cannot be inline comments
`;this is a comment`
