Tutorials/Tutorials/1-Basic Proxy Interactions And Programming/0-Proxy_Basics/Readme.md, before:


# Tutorial - Proxy Basics

This tutorial will introduce key concepts and interactions with the Faraday UART proxy that allows communication between a host computer and local Faraday devices. The supplied proxy program is the main method of interaction with Faraday's over a local computer host connection and provides this functionality over a RESTful API on localhost.

The architecture of the applications interacting with Faraday are contained in several layers

**Proxy Interface:**is always the low level interface to the actual device. Applications. Proxy provides an API for the physical Faraday device.

**Applications:** Programs that interact with the Proxy Interface and provide functionalities using a Faraday device locally connected to the host computer. Applications utilize the Proxy RESTful interface while also providing (ideally) another RESTful interface for higher level programs to provide user interfaces.


**External Interface:** Programs that interact with applications to provide a user interface or API to the applications functionality. These provide a modular interface to faraday functionallity and are highly desired but not always neccessary. 

![Faraday proxy and application block diagram](Images/FaradayProxyBlocks.jpg "Faraday Proxy and Application Architecture")

This tutorial will focus on the interactions with Proxy directly without any applications by using POST/GET to retrieve data from a local Farday device. Understanding how to interact with Proxy as a programmer is essential to programming applications.

# Tutorial Code Overview

The example tutorial code shows how to:

* Import Faraday's Python module for Proxy interaction
* Configure the proxy tool to conenct to a local Faraday device
* Retrieve waiting data from a UART "service port" (PORT 5 - Telemetry)
  * If no data is waiting the program commands the local unit to send telemetry information to retrieve
* Parse the retrieved telemetry packet 


### Code - Python Module Imports

Several Python module tools are provided to make interacting with the proxy server easier. Importing these allow predefined functions to handle the functionallity of retrieving and sending data to the local Faraday device.

**faradaybasicproxyio:** A simple class object used to "connect" to a local device over proxy and allow the retrieval and transmission of data.

**faradaycommands:** A predefined list of commands that control a Faraday device. These functions return a completed packet ready for transmission over the proxy interface.

**telemetryparser:** A tool used to decode and parse retrived telemetry application packets from a Faraday device.
 

```python
#Imports - General

import os, sys
sys.path.append(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), "../")) #Append path to common tutorial FaradayIO module

#Imports - Faraday Specific
from FaradayIO import faradaybasicproxyio
from FaradayIO import faradaycommands
from FaradayIO import telemetryparser

```

### Code - ProxyIO Tool Configuration/Initialization

```python
#Definitions
FARADAY_TELEMETRY_UART_PORT = 5
FARADAY_CMD_UART_PORT = 2

#Variables
local_device_callsign = 'kb1lqd'
local_device_node_id = 1

#Start the proxy server after configuring the configuration file correctly
#Setup a Faraday IO object
faraday_1 = faradaybasicproxyio.proxyio()
faraday_cmd = faradaycommands.faraday_commands()
faraday_parser = telemetryparser.TelemetryParse()

```

### Code - Retrieve Data From Proxy

```python

#Get all waiting packets on the Telemetry port (assuming faraday has been auto-transmitting telemetry packets). Get returns a list of all packets received on port (in JSON dictionary format).
print "Getting the latest telemetry from Faraday!"
rx_telem_data = faraday_1.GET( local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, FARADAY_TELEMETRY_UART_PORT)

#Check if no received data waiting in Queue
if(rx_telem_data == None):
    #No packets recieved yet, command the unit to transmit a UART telemetry packet NOW
    faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, FARADAY_CMD_UART_PORT, faraday_cmd.CommandLocalUARTUpdateNow())
    #Wait up to 1 second for the unit to respond to the command. NOTE: GETWait will return ALL packets received if more than 1 packet (likley not in THIS case)
    rx_telem_data = faraday_1.GETWait(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, FARADAY_TELEMETRY_UART_PORT, 1, True) #Will block and wait for given time until a packet is recevied
```

### Code - Parsing Retrieve Data From Proxy

```python
try:
    print "\nThe Recevied data contains " + str(len(rx_telem_data)) + " packet(s) encoded in BASE64"

    #Decode the first packet in list from BASE 64 to a RAW bytesting
    print rx_telem_data
    rx_telem_pkt_decoded = faraday_1.DecodeRawPacket(rx_telem_data[0]['data'])
    print "\nThe first telemetry packet is:"
    print "\nAs Received BASE64:"
    print rx_telem_data[0]['data']
    print "\nDecoded:"
    print repr(rx_telem_data)

    #Unpack the telemetry datagram containing the standard "Telemetry Packet #3" packet
    rx_telemetry_datagram = faraday_parser.UnpackDatagram(rx_telem_pkt_decoded, debug = True) #Debug is ON
    #Extract just the data packet portion of the JSON dictionary
    rx_telemetry_packet = rx_telemetry_datagram[3]
    print "\nThe Decoded Data Within The Packet Is:\n"
    print rx_telemetry_datagram[3]

    #Extract the exact debug packet from longer datagram payload (Telemetry Packet #2)
    rx_telemetry_packet_extracted = faraday_parser.ExtractPaddedPacket(rx_telemetry_packet, faraday_parser.packet_3_len)

    #Parse the Telemetry #3 packet
    rx_telemetry_packet_parsed = faraday_parser.UnpackPacket_3(rx_telemetry_packet_extracted, True) #Debug ON
except:
    print "Failed to get data."
```

Commit message:

Colde block descriptions
Added text blocks to the code descriptions.

Tutorials/Tutorials/1-Basic Proxy Interactions And Programming/0-Proxy_Basics/Readme.md, after:


# Tutorial - Proxy Basics

This tutorial will introduce key concepts and interactions with the Faraday UART proxy that allows communication between a host computer and local Faraday devices. The supplied proxy program is the main method of interaction with Faraday's over a local computer host connection and provides this functionality over a RESTful API on localhost.

The architecture of the applications interacting with Faraday are contained in several layers

**Proxy Interface:**is always the low level interface to the actual device. Applications. Proxy provides an API for the physical Faraday device.

**Applications:** Programs that interact with the Proxy Interface and provide functionalities using a Faraday device locally connected to the host computer. Applications utilize the Proxy RESTful interface while also providing (ideally) another RESTful interface for higher level programs to provide user interfaces.


**External Interface:** Programs that interact with applications to provide a user interface or API to the applications functionality. These provide a modular interface to faraday functionallity and are highly desired but not always neccessary. 

![Faraday proxy and application block diagram](Images/FaradayProxyBlocks.jpg "Faraday Proxy and Application Architecture")

This tutorial will focus on the interactions with Proxy directly without any applications by using POST/GET to retrieve data from a local Farday device. Understanding how to interact with Proxy as a programmer is essential to programming applications.

# Tutorial Code Overview

The example tutorial code shows how to:

* Import Faraday's Python module for Proxy interaction
* Configure the proxy tool to conenct to a local Faraday device
* Retrieve waiting data from a UART "service port" (PORT 5 - Telemetry)
  * If no data is waiting the program commands the local unit to send telemetry information to retrieve
* Parse the retrieved telemetry packet 


### Code - Python Module Imports

Several Python module tools are provided to make interacting with the proxy server easier. Importing these allow predefined functions to handle the functionallity of retrieving and sending data to the local Faraday device.

The Faraday Python module tools are imported using a relative PATH and to do so the PATH must be assigned using `sys.path.append()`

The Faraday tools provided:

**faradaybasicproxyio:** A simple class object used to "connect" to a local device over proxy and allow the retrieval and transmission of data.

**faradaycommands:** A predefined list of commands that control a Faraday device. These functions return a completed packet ready for transmission over the proxy interface.

**telemetryparser:** A tool used to decode and parse retrived telemetry application packets from a Faraday device.

 

```python
#Imports - General

import os, sys
sys.path.append(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), "../")) #Append path to common tutorial FaradayIO module

#Imports - Faraday Specific
from FaradayIO import faradaybasicproxyio
from FaradayIO import faradaycommands
from FaradayIO import telemetryparser

```

### Code - ProxyIO Tool Configuration and Program Variables

To connect to a local Faraday device the class object of `faradaybasicproxyio.proxyio()` must be created. The local callsign and ID is respective to the *assigned proxy callsign and ID relative to the COM ports* and may not match the current device configuration.

Proxy can be connected to multiple Faraday devices at once (this is configured when starting proxy) and the `local_device_callsign` and `local_device_node_id` variables are variables used to interact with the intended device connected. The `FARADAY_TELEMETRY_UART_PORT` and other constants are defined here for clarity but as shown later are avaiable predefined in the tool modules. 

The Python class objects are initialized and ready to provide their functionalities further in the program.


```python
#Definitions
FARADAY_TELEMETRY_UART_PORT = 5
FARADAY_CMD_UART_PORT = 2

#Variables
local_device_callsign = 'kb1lqd'
local_device_node_id = 1

#Start the proxy server after configuring the configuration file correctly
#Setup a Faraday IO object
faraday_1 = faradaybasicproxyio.proxyio()
faraday_cmd = faradaycommands.faraday_commands()
faraday_parser = telemetryparser.TelemetryParse()

```

### Code - Retrieve Data From Proxy


This code block attempts to retrieve data from the Telemetry application port over UART (PORT 5 - UART Layer 4). The proxy buffers packets sent from a local Faraday device into FIFO's and retrieving data from the proxy is simply retrieving data from these FIFO's. If not data is waiting to be retrieved then the value `None` is returned. The telemetry from a device is transmitted over UART at specific intervals set by the device configuration, it is possible to stop all interval transmissions.

If no data is able to be retrieved the program sends a command to the Faraday device forcing it to transmit over UART it's latest Telemetry packet (using the COMMAND port on UART Layer 4). After commanding the device will take some undefined time to process and send this data, using `faraday_1.GET()` will likley return `None` again due to the data having not yet been sent from the device.

`faraday_1.GETWait()` is used to wait (blocking) until data is available from the UART service port up to a specified timeout time. Note that this function will trigger on ANY data received and not neccessarally the intended data being waited for. In this example the only data being sent is the intended telemetry.

```python

#Get all waiting packets on the Telemetry port (assuming faraday has been auto-transmitting telemetry packets). Get returns a list of all packets received on port (in JSON dictionary format).
print "Getting the latest telemetry from Faraday!"
rx_telem_data = faraday_1.GET( local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, FARADAY_TELEMETRY_UART_PORT)

#Check if no received data waiting in Queue
if(rx_telem_data == None):
    #No packets recieved yet, command the unit to transmit a UART telemetry packet NOW
    faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, FARADAY_CMD_UART_PORT, faraday_cmd.CommandLocalUARTUpdateNow())
    #Wait up to 1 second for the unit to respond to the command. NOTE: GETWait will return ALL packets received if more than 1 packet (likley not in THIS case)
    rx_telem_data = faraday_1.GETWait(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, FARADAY_TELEMETRY_UART_PORT, 1, True) #Will block and wait for given time until a packet is recevied
```

### Code - Parsing Retrieve Data From Proxy

```python
try:
    print "\nThe Recevied data contains " + str(len(rx_telem_data)) + " packet(s) encoded in BASE64"

    #Decode the first packet in list from BASE 64 to a RAW bytesting
    print rx_telem_data
    rx_telem_pkt_decoded = faraday_1.DecodeRawPacket(rx_telem_data[0]['data'])
    print "\nThe first telemetry packet is:"
    print "\nAs Received BASE64:"
    print rx_telem_data[0]['data']
    print "\nDecoded:"
    print repr(rx_telem_data)

    #Unpack the telemetry datagram containing the standard "Telemetry Packet #3" packet
    rx_telemetry_datagram = faraday_parser.UnpackDatagram(rx_telem_pkt_decoded, debug = True) #Debug is ON
    #Extract just the data packet portion of the JSON dictionary
    rx_telemetry_packet = rx_telemetry_datagram[3]
    print "\nThe Decoded Data Within The Packet Is:\n"
    print rx_telemetry_datagram[3]

    #Extract the exact debug packet from longer datagram payload (Telemetry Packet #2)
    rx_telemetry_packet_extracted = faraday_parser.ExtractPaddedPacket(rx_telemetry_packet, faraday_parser.packet_3_len)

    #Parse the Telemetry #3 packet
    rx_telemetry_packet_parsed = faraday_parser.UnpackPacket_3(rx_telemetry_packet_extracted, True) #Debug ON
except:
    print "Failed to get data."
```
