Tutorials/start/installing-software.md, before:

# Installing Faraday Software
The open source software provided by FaradayRF is primarily written in Python. Any language capable of interfacing with a serial port could be used. However, we chose Python 2.7 due to it's ease of learning and cross-platform capabilities.

Please note that no testing has been performed with Python 3 at this time. If you do, please let us know!

This guide is also a work in progress and has been written using a Windows and Debian environment. It will be updated as available with other operating system specific steps.

## Installing Python 2.7
### Windows
 * The Hitchhiker's Guide To Python: [Installing Python on Windows](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/install/win/)
 
### Linux (Debian-based)
Most distributions come with Python preinstalled, however if not please read the [Python Documentation](https://docs.python.org/2/using/unix.html#getting-and-installing-the-latest-version-of-python)

#### Installing Pip
If you are using Debian 8 you will need to install pip.
 * ```sudo apt-get install python-pip```

### Mac OS X
Python 2.7 should come installed on OS X. however it does not include all necessary development packages and tools. You should install these if necessary:
 * The Hitchhiker's Guide To Python: [Installing Python on Mac OS X](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/install/osx/)
 
##Faraday Software (Git)
###Windows
> Skip to "Zip File Installation" if you do not plan on forking/commiting new code to GitHub

The open-source software is provided on our GitHub repository. If you plan on developing software you should [install GIT](https://git-scm.com/) on your computer.

**Windows Git guide!**

###Linux (Debian-Based)
> Skip to "Zip File Installation" if you do not plan on forking/commiting new code to GitHub

 1. Create suitable folder for Faraday software. I.e. ```mkdir -p git/faradayrf```
 2. Navigate to the new folder ```cd git/faradayrf```
 3. Clone latest master branch: ```git clone https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software.git .```
 4. [Install Python packages](installing-software.md#installing-required-python-packages)

Latest Master: https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software.git

###Zip File Installation
####Windows
This method will download the latest stable software in a Zip archive. It is not able to push code back into GitHub.
 1. Download the [Faraday Software Zip](https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software/archive/master.zip)
 3. Unzip contents into desired location i.e. ```C:\faradayrf```
 4. Navigate to your unzipped file ```C:\faradayrf\Faraday-Software-master```
 5. [Install Python packages](/installing-software.md#windows-3)
 
####Linux (Debian-Based)
This method will download the latest stable software in a Zip archive. It is not able to push code back into GitHub.
 1. Download the [Faraday Software Zip](https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software/archive/master.zip)
 2. Open zip with Archive Manager
 3. Create a new folder ```faradayrf``` and extract the archive to this location
 4. In terminal ```cd faradayrf/Faraday-Software-master```
 5. [Install Python packages](/installing-software.md#linux-debian-based-3)

##Installing Required Python Packages
###Windows
Use the requirements.txt file to install all necessary packages in one command.

 ```pip install -r requirements.txt```
 
###Linux (Debian-based)
Use the requirements.txt file to install all necessary packages in one command.

```sudo pip install -r requirements.txt```

You must use sudo to ensure you have permission to install all necessary packages.
 
# Plugging it Together
Congratulations! Making it this far means that you're so close to using Faraday. However we need to [plug in the Faraday hardware](connecting-hardware.md) and complete configuration. Two quick steps.

Commit message:

Added Windows Git clone guide

Tutorials/start/installing-software.md, after:

# Installing Faraday Software
The open source software provided by FaradayRF is primarily written in Python. Any language capable of interfacing with a serial port could be used. However, we chose Python 2.7 due to it's ease of learning and cross-platform capabilities.

Please note that no testing has been performed with Python 3 at this time. If you do, please let us know!

This guide is also a work in progress and has been written using a Windows and Debian environment. It will be updated as available with other operating system specific steps.

## Installing Python 2.7
### Windows
 * The Hitchhiker's Guide To Python: [Installing Python on Windows](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/install/win/)
 
### Linux (Debian-based)
Most distributions come with Python preinstalled, however if not please read the [Python Documentation](https://docs.python.org/2/using/unix.html#getting-and-installing-the-latest-version-of-python)

#### Installing Pip
If you are using Debian 8 you will need to install pip.
 * ```sudo apt-get install python-pip```

### Mac OS X
Python 2.7 should come installed on OS X. however it does not include all necessary development packages and tools. You should install these if necessary:
 * The Hitchhiker's Guide To Python: [Installing Python on Mac OS X](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/install/osx/)
 
##Faraday Software (Git)
###Windows
> Skip to "Zip File Installation" if you do not plan on forking/commiting new code to GitHub

The open-source software is provided on our GitHub repository. If you plan on developing software you should [install GIT](https://git-scm.com/) on your computer. This guide assumes Git is installed with Git Bash.

Using Git Bash (right-click|Git Bash here) this example will be relative to wherever you start bash:

 1. Create a suitable folder for Faraday software. I.e. `mkdir -p git/faradayrf`
 2. Navigate to the new folder `cd git/faradayrf`
 3. Clone the lastest master branch `git clone https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software.git .`
 4. [Install Python packages](installing-software.md#installing-required-python-packages)

###Linux (Debian-Based)
> Skip to "Zip File Installation" if you do not plan on forking/commiting new code to GitHub

 1. Create suitable folder for Faraday software. I.e. ```mkdir -p git/faradayrf```
 2. Navigate to the new folder ```cd git/faradayrf```
 3. Clone latest master branch ```git clone https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software.git .```
 4. [Install Python packages](installing-software.md#installing-required-python-packages)

Latest Master: https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software.git

###Zip File Installation
####Windows
This method will download the latest stable software in a Zip archive. It is not able to push code back into GitHub.
 1. Download the [Faraday Software Zip](https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software/archive/master.zip)
 3. Unzip contents into desired location i.e. ```C:\faradayrf```
 4. Navigate to your unzipped file ```C:\faradayrf\Faraday-Software-master```
 5. [Install Python packages](installing-software.md#installing-required-python-packages)
 
####Linux (Debian-Based)
This method will download the latest stable software in a Zip archive. It is not able to push code back into GitHub.
 1. Download the [Faraday Software Zip](https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software/archive/master.zip)
 2. Open zip with Archive Manager
 3. Create a new folder ```faradayrf``` and extract the archive to this location
 4. In terminal ```cd faradayrf/Faraday-Software-master```
 5. [Install Python packages](installing-software.md#installing-required-python-packages)

##Installing Required Python Packages
###Windows
Use the requirements.txt file to install all necessary packages in one command.

 ```pip install -r requirements.txt```
 
###Linux (Debian-based)
Use the requirements.txt file to install all necessary packages in one command.

```sudo pip install -r requirements.txt```

You must use sudo to ensure you have permission to install all necessary packages.
 
# Plugging it Together
Congratulations! Making it this far means that you're so close to using Faraday. However we need to [plug in the Faraday hardware](connecting-hardware.md) and complete configuration. Two quick steps.
