Tutorials/Tutorials/1-Basic_Proxy_Interactions_And_Programming/3-Device-Configuration/Readme.md, before:


# Tutorial - Device Configuration

This tutorial will example how to use the Device Configuration program to both read and write non-volatile Faraday unit configuration using the proxy interface. This configuration data is stored in the CC430 Flash memory and is used to store the units callsign, ID, and other information/default settings.

Reconfiguring the non-volatile memory on Faraday requires using the "Device Configuration" proxy application.

> NOTE: Device Configuration using the application tool in this tutorial is currently limited to programming a single device at a time.


#Running The Tutorial Example Script

## Start The Proxy Interface

Following the [Configuring Proxy](../../0-Welcome_To_Faraday/Configuring_Proxy/) tutorial configure, start, and ensure a successful connection to a locally (USB) connected Faraday digital radio.

## Start The Device Configuration Application

In the Applications folder locate and open the folder named *"deviceconfiguration".*

![Applications Folder](Images/Applications_Folder.png "Applications Folder")

Open the *"deviceconfiguration.ini"* file with a text editor.

![Device Configuration Folder](Images/Device_Configuration_Folder.png "Device Configuration Folder")

Update the INI section **[devices]** contents to match that of the proxy interface configuration file for the respective Faraday unit you wish to program with a new configuration. Save the file when completed. For example, to connect the Device Configuration tool to `KB1LQD-1` The file would be updated as shown below.

![Device Configuration File Example](Images/deviceconfiguration_INI_Example.png "Device Configuration File Example")

Run the *"deviceconfiguration.py"* python script. A successful connection will show a terminal output similar to below.

![Connection Success](Images/Connection_Success.png "Connection Success")


#See Also

Commit message:

Major update to device config tutorial
Updates to tutorial, tracking down bug in tutorial/device config code.

Tutorials/Tutorials/1-Basic_Proxy_Interactions_And_Programming/3-Device-Configuration/Readme.md, after:


# Tutorial - Device Configuration

This tutorial will example how to use the Device Configuration program to both read and write non-volatile Faraday unit configuration using the proxy interface. This configuration data is stored in the CC430 Flash memory and is used to store the units callsign, ID, and other information/default settings.

Reconfiguring the non-volatile memory on Faraday requires using the "Device Configuration" proxy application. The configuration can both be read from the device and reprogrammed. The device application program uses the `faraday_config.ini` file to reprogram a Faraday device, sending a RESTful POST command to the program initiates the reading, parsing, and command creation from the `faraday_config.ini` file.

> NOTE: Device Configuration using the application tool in this tutorial is currently limited to programming a single device at a time.


#Running The Tutorial Example Script

## Start The Proxy Interface

Following the [Configuring Proxy](../../0-Welcome_To_Faraday/Configuring_Proxy/) tutorial configure, start, and ensure a successful connection to a locally (USB) connected Faraday digital radio.

## Start The Device Configuration Application

In the Applications folder locate and open the folder named *"deviceconfiguration".*

![Applications Folder](Images/Applications_Folder.png "Applications Folder")

Open the *"deviceconfiguration.ini"* file with a text editor.

![Device Configuration Folder](Images/Device_Configuration_Folder.png "Device Configuration Folder")

Update the INI section **[devices]** contents to match that of the proxy interface configuration file for the respective Faraday unit you wish to program with a new configuration. Save the file when completed. 

* `units` = 1
* `unit0call` = Callsign of proxy Faraday device to reconfigure
* `unit0id` = Callsign ID number (0-255) of proxy Faraday device to reconfigure

For example, to connect the Device Configuration tool to `KB1LQD-1` The file would be updated as shown below.

![Device Configuration File Example](Images/deviceconfiguration_INI_Example.png "Device Configuration File Example")

Run the *"deviceconfiguration.py"* python script. A successful connection will show a terminal output similar to below.

![Connection Success](Images/Connection_Success.png "Connection Success")

## Edit Faraday Configuration Settings

Open the `faraday_configuration.ini` file in a text editor. Edit all of the fields with the intended reprogramming values.


![Faraday Configuration INI File Example](Images/Faraday_Configuration_Example.png "Faraday Configuration INI File Example")


The table below describes each INI file option and maximum size. Also supplied is the BITMASK configuration description table.

![Device Configuration INI File Table](Images/Faraday_Configuration_Table.png "Device Configuration INI File Table")

![Faraday Configuration Bitmask Descriptions](Images/Faraday_Configuration_Bitmask_Table.png "Faraday Configuration Bitmask Descriptions")

#See Also
