Tutorials/Python_Developer_Tutorials/foundation/Commanding-Local/Readme.md, before:


# Tutorial - Command Local

This tutorial will introduce how to command a local (USB-UART) Faraday device using the Proxy server interface. Several key commands are used although many more exist within the Faraday Commands module.

The example tutorial code focuses on how to:

* Send local device GPIO commands (LEDs)
* Send an "ECHO" command that echos UART payload data back to the host computer

> NOTE: All commands are checked for corruption by the CC430 prior to execution but they are not currently acknowledged or guaranteed to be received.

### Prerequisites
* Properly configured and connected proxy
  * 1x Faraday

# Running The Tutorial Example Script

## Configuration

* Open `configuration-template.ini` with a text editor
* Update `CALLSIGN` Replace `REPLACEME` to match the callsign of the Faraday unit **as assigned** in proxy
* Update `NODEID` to match the callsign node ID of the Faraday unit **as assigned** in proxy
* Save the file as `configuration.ini`



## Tutorial Output Examples

below is a screen-shot of the partial output of the tutorial script when run in a python interpreter (PyCharm). Be sure to look at the two LED's on Faraday as the script is running to observe them turing ON and OFF.


![Example Tutorial Operation](Images/Output.png "Example Tutorial Operation")


# Code Overview

## Code - Toggle GPIO's (LEDs) Predefined Functions

The Faraday command module object predefine's many common actions such as turning ON/OFF the on-board LED's. Using `faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1On()` will command the LED #1 to an ON state and light up the LED. Alternatively `faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1Off()` turns the LED OFF.

`faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1On()` returns a completed command packet ready to be sent to the local device over the proxy interface (UART) and must be sent over the correct UART service port (PORT 2) for the command application running on Faraday's CC430. This is predefined as the class variable `faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT`.

 `faraday_1.POST()` will use the RESTful API of the Proxy Interface to POST data (our command packet) to a specified local device (`local_device_callsign`,`local_device_node_id`). The returned command packet in the tutorial example code is contained in the global variable `command`.

The sleep time is only used so that each LED state is clearly visible to the user.


```python
##############
## TOGGLE GPIO
##############
#Turn LED 1 ON LOCAL
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1On()
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
time.sleep(1)

#Turn LED 1 OFF LOCAL
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1Off()
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)

#Turn LED 2 ON LOCAL
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED2On()
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
time.sleep(1)
```

## Code - Toggle GPIO's (LEDs) Bitmask

The predefined functions are actually just providing an abstraction of the `CommandLocalGPIO(self, p3_bitmask_on, p4_bitmask_on, p5_bitmask_on, p3_bitmask_off, p4_bitmask_off, p5_bitmask_off)` function that provides GPIO bitmask control of all controllable GPIO pins. This functionality is part of the Command Application and provides control of all GPIO in a single command while also guarding potentially damaging GPIO from being accidentally changed (i.e. removes ability to manually toggle the RF amplifier GPIO).

The Python module function `faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO()` contains 6 function arguments:

* 3 function arguments for commanding GPIO ports 3, 4, 5 pins ON
* 3 function arguments for commanding GPIO ports 3, 4, 5 pins OFF

If any bits are HIGH (1) in the bitmask bytes then the respective ON/OFF action will be applied to that bitmask's pin, if a bit is left LOW (0) then no action will take place and the pin will remain in it's current HIGH/LOW state. Commanding both and HIGH and LOW for the same port/pin is not allowed.

**For Example:**

`faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO(BIT1, 0, 0, 0, BIT3, 0)`

* Toggles PORT 3 BIT 1 pin HIGH
* Toggles PORT 4 BIT 3 pin LOW

Bitwise operations allow multiple GPIO's to be commanded simultaneously.

`faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO(BIT1|BIT5|BIT6, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)`

* Toggles PORT 3 BIT 1, BIT 5, and BIT 6 pins HIGH




```python

#Turn LED 2 OFF LOCAL
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO(0, 0, 0, gpioallocations.LED_2, 0, 0) #This examples how the non predefined LED GPIO commanding is created. Multiple GPIO's can be toggled at once using ||'s
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
time.sleep(1) #Delay so it is obvious that both LED's turn on at the same time in the next command

#Turn Both LED 1 and LED 2 ON simultaneously
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO((gpioallocations.LED_1|gpioallocations.LED_2), 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
time.sleep(1)

#Turn Both LED 1 and LED 2 OFF simultaneously
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO(0, 0, 0, (gpioallocations.LED_1|gpioallocations.LED_2), 0, 0)
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
```
## Code - Command ECHO

A simple ECHO like command is provided that will send the supplied data payload back to the host computer. The ECHO command only accepts a single UART transport packet so it is limited in size to the 124 byte maximum transmissible unit of the current UART network stack.

This example sends the string `"This will ECHO back on UART"` to the local Faraday device and retrieves, parses, and displays the ECHO'd packet. Note the appended padding bytes visible due to fixed length UART transport packet.

```python
###############
## ECHO MESSAGE
###############
print "\n** Beginning ECHO command test** \n"
#Use the general command library to send a text message to the Faraday UART "ECHO" command. Will only ECHO a SINGLE packet. This will send the payload of the message back (up to 62 bytes, this can be updated in firmware to 124!)
originalmsg = "This will ECHO back on UART" #Cannot be longer than max UART payload size!
command = faradaycommands.commandmodule.create_command_datagram(faraday_cmd.CMD_ECHO, originalmsg)
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)

#Retrive waiting data packet in UART Transport service number for the COMMAND application (Use GETWait() to block until ready or return False).
rx_echo_raw = faraday_1.GETWait(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, sec_timeout = 3)  # Wait for up to 3 seconds for data to arrive

#Now parse data again
b64_data = rx_echo_raw[0]['data']
echo_decoded = faraday_1.DecodeRawPacket(b64_data)

#Display information
print "**Sending**\n"
print "Original Message: ", originalmsg
print "\n**Receiving**\n"
print "Decoded received ECHO'd Message:", echo_decoded # Note that ECHO sends back a fixed packed regardless. Should update to send back exact length.
print "\nRAW Received BASE64 ECHO'd Message:", b64_data
print "\nDecoded BASE64 RAW Bytes:", repr(echo_decoded)
```


## Tutorial Output Example

below is a screenshot of the partial output of the tutorial script when run in a python interpreter (PyCharm).


![Output from the Commanding - Local Tutorial](Images/Output.png "Output from the Commanding - Local Tutorial")

The padding bytes are clearly visible appended to the end of the returned ECHO'd string. 

#Bonus Exercise

* Modify the the example script to remove the padding bytes and display only the original ECHO'd string.
  * Can you support variably given any string length using only the packets sent and received ("Decoded BASE64 RAW Bytes")?

# To-Do
* Additional tutorials/documentation
  * Command Application documentation
  * UART protocol documentation

Commit message:

Added ECHO exception in readme.md

Tutorials/Python_Developer_Tutorials/foundation/Commanding-Local/Readme.md, after:


# Tutorial - Command Local

This tutorial will introduce how to command a local (USB-UART) Faraday device using the Proxy server interface. Several key commands are used although many more exist within the Faraday Commands module.

The example tutorial code focuses on how to:

* Send local device GPIO commands (LEDs)
* Send an "ECHO" command that echos UART payload data back to the host computer

> NOTE: All commands are checked for corruption by the CC430 prior to execution but they are not currently acknowledged or guaranteed to be received.

### Prerequisites
* Properly configured and connected proxy
  * 1x Faraday

# Running The Tutorial Example Script

## Configuration

* Open `configuration-template.ini` with a text editor
* Update `CALLSIGN` Replace `REPLACEME` to match the callsign of the Faraday unit **as assigned** in proxy
* Update `NODEID` to match the callsign node ID of the Faraday unit **as assigned** in proxy
* Save the file as `configuration.ini`



## Tutorial Output Examples

below is a screen-shot of the partial output of the tutorial script when run in a python interpreter (PyCharm). Be sure to look at the two LED's on Faraday as the script is running to observe them turing ON and OFF.


![Example Tutorial Operation](Images/Output.png "Example Tutorial Operation")


# Code Overview

## Code - Toggle GPIO's (LEDs) Predefined Functions

The Faraday command module object predefine's many common actions such as turning ON/OFF the on-board LED's. Using `faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1On()` will command the LED #1 to an ON state and light up the LED. Alternatively `faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1Off()` turns the LED OFF.

`faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1On()` returns a completed command packet ready to be sent to the local device over the proxy interface (UART) and must be sent over the correct UART service port (PORT 2) for the command application running on Faraday's CC430. This is predefined as the class variable `faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT`.

 `faraday_1.POST()` will use the RESTful API of the Proxy Interface to POST data (our command packet) to a specified local device (`local_device_callsign`,`local_device_node_id`). The returned command packet in the tutorial example code is contained in the global variable `command`.

The sleep time is only used so that each LED state is clearly visible to the user.


```python
##############
## TOGGLE GPIO
##############
#Turn LED 1 ON LOCAL
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1On()
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
time.sleep(1)

#Turn LED 1 OFF LOCAL
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED1Off()
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)

#Turn LED 2 ON LOCAL
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIOLED2On()
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
time.sleep(1)
```

## Code - Toggle GPIO's (LEDs) Bitmask

The predefined functions are actually just providing an abstraction of the `CommandLocalGPIO(self, p3_bitmask_on, p4_bitmask_on, p5_bitmask_on, p3_bitmask_off, p4_bitmask_off, p5_bitmask_off)` function that provides GPIO bitmask control of all controllable GPIO pins. This functionality is part of the Command Application and provides control of all GPIO in a single command while also guarding potentially damaging GPIO from being accidentally changed (i.e. removes ability to manually toggle the RF amplifier GPIO).

The Python module function `faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO()` contains 6 function arguments:

* 3 function arguments for commanding GPIO ports 3, 4, 5 pins ON
* 3 function arguments for commanding GPIO ports 3, 4, 5 pins OFF

If any bits are HIGH (1) in the bitmask bytes then the respective ON/OFF action will be applied to that bitmask's pin, if a bit is left LOW (0) then no action will take place and the pin will remain in it's current HIGH/LOW state. Commanding both and HIGH and LOW for the same port/pin is not allowed.

**For Example:**

`faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO(BIT1, 0, 0, 0, BIT3, 0)`

* Toggles PORT 3 BIT 1 pin HIGH
* Toggles PORT 4 BIT 3 pin LOW

Bitwise operations allow multiple GPIO's to be commanded simultaneously.

`faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO(BIT1|BIT5|BIT6, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)`

* Toggles PORT 3 BIT 1, BIT 5, and BIT 6 pins HIGH




```python

#Turn LED 2 OFF LOCAL
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO(0, 0, 0, gpioallocations.LED_2, 0, 0) #This examples how the non predefined LED GPIO commanding is created. Multiple GPIO's can be toggled at once using ||'s
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
time.sleep(1) #Delay so it is obvious that both LED's turn on at the same time in the next command

#Turn Both LED 1 and LED 2 ON simultaneously
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO((gpioallocations.LED_1|gpioallocations.LED_2), 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
time.sleep(1)

#Turn Both LED 1 and LED 2 OFF simultaneously
command = faraday_cmd.CommandLocalGPIO(0, 0, 0, (gpioallocations.LED_1|gpioallocations.LED_2), 0, 0)
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)
```
## Code - Command ECHO

A simple ECHO like command is provided that will send the supplied data payload back to the host computer. The ECHO command only accepts a single UART transport packet so it is limited in size to the 124 byte maximum transmissible unit of the current UART network stack.

This example sends the string `"This will ECHO back on UART"` to the local Faraday device and retrieves, parses, and displays the ECHO'd packet. Note the appended padding bytes visible due to fixed length UART transport packet.

```python
###############
## ECHO MESSAGE
###############
print "\n** Beginning ECHO command test** \n"
#Use the general command library to send a text message to the Faraday UART "ECHO" command. Will only ECHO a SINGLE packet. This will send the payload of the message back (up to 62 bytes, this can be updated in firmware to 124!)
originalmsg = "This will ECHO back on UART" #Cannot be longer than max UART payload size!
command = faradaycommands.commandmodule.create_command_datagram(faraday_cmd.CMD_ECHO, originalmsg)
faraday_1.POST(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, command)

#Retrive waiting data packet in UART Transport service number for the COMMAND application (Use GETWait() to block until ready or return False).
rx_echo_raw = faraday_1.GETWait(local_device_callsign, local_device_node_id, faraday_1.CMD_UART_PORT, sec_timeout = 3)  # Wait for up to 3 seconds for data to arrive

#Now parse data again
b64_data = rx_echo_raw[0]['data']
echo_decoded = faraday_1.DecodeRawPacket(b64_data)

#Display information
print "**Sending**\n"
print "Original Message: ", originalmsg
print "\n**Receiving**\n"
print "Decoded received ECHO'd Message:", echo_decoded # Note that ECHO sends back a fixed packed regardless. Should update to send back exact length.
print "\nRAW Received BASE64 ECHO'd Message:", b64_data
print "\nDecoded BASE64 RAW Bytes:", repr(echo_decoded)
```


## Tutorial Output Example

below is a screenshot of the partial output of the tutorial script when run in a python interpreter (PyCharm).


![Output from the Commanding - Local Tutorial](Images/Output.png "Output from the Commanding - Local Tutorial")

The padding bytes are clearly visible appended to the end of the returned ECHO'd string. 

### ECHO Exception - Failure

There is a [known bug](https://github.com/FaradayRF/Faraday-Software/issues/50) that may cause the first packet from Proxy to not properly be retrieved and this has caused ECHO to fail. The workaround to this until it is patched is to simply re-run the tutorial script **without** restarting proxy.

![Output from the Commanding - Local Tutorial](Images/Echo_Exception.png "Output from the Commanding - Local Tutorial")

#Bonus Exercise

* Modify the the example script to remove the padding bytes and display only the original ECHO'd string.
  * Can you support variably given any string length using only the packets sent and received ("Decoded BASE64 RAW Bytes")?

# To-Do
* Additional tutorials/documentation
  * Command Application documentation
  * UART protocol documentation
